My name is Guy Morgan.
One way or another,
I've been involved
in the arts for more
than six decades.
I know ideas are fleeting,
but nowadays, art is momentary too.
It's there, and
then just disappears.
This led me to ask
some brilliant artists
what they think about.
What do you wish for as an artist?
(GUITAR MUSIC)
WOMAN 1: To create works
that matter.
WOMAN 2: That my work
will be remembered.
WOMAN 3: When I was at
uni, all I wanted was fame
and now I'm in the industry,
all I need is money.
WOMAN 4: Creative Freedom.
GUY: What experiences within the
art community have helped you most?
MAN 1: Painting Del Kathryn Barton
for the Archibald Prize.
WOMAN 1: When I felt
wanted and valued.
WOMAN 5: Finding a strong,
inclusive community.
GUY: What language or
words do you object to
when people talk about your work?
WOMAN 2: Pretty.
WOMAN 5: Tokenistic.
Difficult.
AI VOICE: The judges had
a very difficult task.
It was very competitive.
GUY: What are the most challenging
issues you face as an artist?
WOMAN 2: Lack of opportunities
for experimental artwork.
AI VOICE: Not being taken
seriously as an artist.
MAN 2: Society excludes me
through structured inequality.
GUY: What would create
more equal opportunities
for you in the art world?
MAN 2: Make access funding
the last thing to get cut.
Not the first.
WOMAN 6: The publishing
industry needs to catch up.
GUY: What barriers to participation
in the arts would you like removed?
AI VOICE: Labelling
and expectations.
AI VOICE: Society needs to work out
how to make society less disabling.
AI VOICE: Not all
disabilities are visual.
WOMAN 5: Misconceptions.
WOMAN 6: Remove all barriers.
GUY: What is the most positive thing
about being an
artist with disability?
WOMAN 7: Community.
AI VOICE: I get to take
part in projects like this.
GUY: What is the
most difficult thing
about being an
artist with disability?
WOMAN 2: Dealing with
health issues daily
when all you want to
do is make your artwork.
AI VOICE: Not being
able to see properly.
GUY: Is there anything
else you'd like to add?
WOMAN 6: Those with disabilities
turn to the arts.
The arts should turn more to us.
WOMAN 3: Artists who identify
as disabled get relegated.
AI VOICE: I stand for inclusion.
Exclusion doesn't right inequality.
WOMAN 1: The arts sector
is in deep need
of cultural and structural change.
GUY: Many thanks to Amy Mills,
Angie Goto, Bridie McKim,
Christine Johnson, Duncan Meerding,
Emily Dash, Matthew Clarke,
Natalia Stawyskyj,
Sandra Minchin and Sri Thulin.